- [Instructor] Once a web socket server endpoint is built,
clients can connect to the endpoint
to engage in full duplex communication
that allows both sides of the connection to send a message.
In this lesson,
we're going to build out a JavaScript client
that connects to our previously built
web socket server endpoint.
So within the JSF project,
you'll see that I've created the help-js facelet,
and this is a facelet that's going to facilitate a help chat
that allows item managers to discuss product issues.
It's a very simple JSF page.
You'll notice we have a form named chat.
Within chat are two controls that are text boxes.
One is a name and the other is the message text.
So the individual can enter their name
and then the message they want to send,
and then we're going to enter that
into the message area here,
which is just a div where we're going to allow
the chat to take place.
Now, in order to build out a JavaScript web socket client,
we're going to need to add some script within our page.
So we'll do that within the body of the page,
and there is native support
for web sockets within JavaScript,
so it's very easy to use.
The first thing we'll do is add an event handler
to the onload event for the page,
and this allows us to make sure
that all of our elements are in place
before we execute any script.
Next we're going to go ahead
and create a web socket,
and here's where we can leverage
some of that built-in support.
There's a web socket object within JavaScript,
and all we need to do is provide the URL
to the web socket that we would like to communicate with,
and that will establish the connection.
So I'm just going to head over to Socket Wrench
and grab the URL for our web socket
and then paste it into our web socket constructor.
Now from here,
it's kind of like the work we did in Java.
You're able to attach event handlers
to specific events that occur on the socket.
So that should look familiar.
The onmessage event,
so this is going to be invoked whenever a message is sent
to the JavaScript web socket client,
and it's going to be passed an event,
and we can use that event to get the message
that was sent to this JavaScript web socket client.
So let's grab the message div,
because that's where we want to place
any messages we receive,
and then we're just going to add to the markup of that div,
and we'll place the data or the message that we received
from our web socket server endpoint,
and then just for styling,
I'm going to go ahead and create a new line for each message.
So there's our first piece of code
to handle messages coming into our client.
We now need to think about how our JavaScript
web socket client is going to send messages
to the server endpoint.
So we're going to attach an event
to our chat form when it's submitted.
I'll just create this function that will be fired
whenever the form gets submitted.
And then here we're going to capture the information
that was placed in the form,
so just some simple JavaScript
to go ahead and grab our message.
And you'll remember the ID on that field was messageText.
And then we just get the value of that particular field.
We can do the same thing with the name
so that we know who's sending it.
And from here,
it's very simple when working with the built-in
support for web sockets in JavaScript.
We just grab the socket and invoke the send message,
and then whatever we pass in is going to be sent
as a message to the server endpoint.
So let's provide the name
of the individual sending the message.
We're then going to place a colon and then their message.
So just trying to create the chat here
between the end users.
And then we're just going to return false, as well,
so that we don't have that event
propagate up through our DOM.
All right, so that's everything that we need to put in place
to establish a JavaScript web socket client.
Let's go ahead, run the application,
and while that's firing up,
I'm going to open two browsers,
because we're going to have two clients
that are going to communicate via our help chat.
So we can go ahead, open our application,
go to the help form,
and let's have two folks.
We'll have Steve and we'll have Jane.
And Steve's going to have a problem with one of the products,
and you'll notice that they both get the message
sent to them from the web socket server endpoint.
Jane's going to ask what is wrong.
And you can see how the web socket is able
to send messages to both of these clients.
Okay, so that was a look at building
a JavaScript web socket client.
Very simple with the built-in support we find in JavaScript.